in this video I'd like to start talking
about a second type of unsupervised
learning problem called dimensionality
reduction there are a couple different
reasons why one might want to do
dimensionality reduction one is data
compression and as we'll see later a few
videos later data compression not only
allows us to compress the data and have
it therefore use of less computer memory
or disk space but it will also allow us
to speed up our learning algorithms but
first let's start by talking about what
is dimensionality reduction as a
motivating example let's say that we've
collected a data set with many many many
features and I plotted just two of them
here and let's say that unknown to us
two of the features were actually the
length of something in centimeters and a
different feature of x2 is the length of
the same thing in inches so this gives
us a highly redundant representation and
maybe instead of having two separate
features x1 and x2 both of which
basically measure the length maybe what
we want to do is reduce the data to one
dimensional and just have one number
measuring this length in case this
examples he has been contrived this this
centimeter an interest example is
actually not that unrealistic and not
that different from things that I see
happening in industry if you have
hundreds of thousands of features is
often just easy to lose track of exactly
what features you have and sometimes you
may have a few different engineering
teams maybe one engineering team gives
you two hundred features a second
engineer team gives you another three
hundred features then the third
engineering team gives you five of your
features so you have a thousand features
all together and it actually becomes
hard to keep track of you know exactly
which features you got from which team
and is actually not that hard to have
highly redundant features like these and
so if the length and centimeters was
rounded off to the nearest centimeter
and length in inches was rounded off to
the nearest inch then that's why these
examples don't lie perfectly on the
straight line because
you know roundoff error to the nearest
centimeter or DeNiro's inch and if we
can reduce the data to one dimensions
into the two dimensions that um reduces
the redundancy for a different example
again maybe one that seems slightly less
contrived for many years I've been
working with autonomous helicopter
pilots orders I've been working with
pilots that fly helicopters and so if
you were to measure if you were to do a
survey or do a test of these different
pilots you might have one feature x1
which is maybe the skill of these
helicopter pilots and maybe x2 could be
the pilot enjoyment that is you know how
much they enjoy flying and maybe these
two features will be highly correlated
and what you really care about might be
this all over this direction a different
feature that really measures you know
pilot aptitude and I'm making up the
name aptitude of course but again if you
have highly correlated features maybe
you really want to reduce the dimension
so let me say a little bit more about
what it really means to reduce the
dimension of the data from two
dimensions that is from 2d to
one-dimensional or to 1d let me color in
this example slightly different colors
and in this case by reducing the
dimension what I mean is that I would
like to find maybe this line this you
know direction on which most of the data
seems to lie and project all the data
onto that line religious group and by
doing so what I can do is just measure
the position of each of the examples on
that line and what I can do is come up
with a new feature z1 and to specify the
position on the line I need only one
number so z1 is a new feature that
specifies the location of each of those
points on this
and what this means is that whereas
previously if I had an example of x1
maybe this was my first example x1 so in
order to represent x1 originally x1 I
needed a 2 dimensional number for a 2
dimensional feature vector instead now I
can represent you
z1 I can use just z1 to represent my
first example and that's going to be a
real number and similarly x2
you know if x2 is my second example
there then previously whereas this was
this required two numbers to represent
if I instead compute the projection of
that back cross onto the line and now I
need only one real number which is z2 to
represent the location of this point z2
on the line and so on through my M
examples so just to summarize if we
allow ourselves to approximate the
original data set by projecting all of
my original examples onto this green
line over here then I need only one
number I need only one real number to
specify the position of a point on the
line and so what I can do is therefore
use just one number to represent the
location of each of my training examples
after they've been projected onto that
green line so this is an approximation
to the original training set because I
have projected all my training examples
onto a line but now I need to spend and
now I need to keep around only one
number for each of my examples and so
this halves the memory requirement or
the displace requirement what
you four enough how to steal my data and
perhaps more interesting Li more
importantly what we'll see later in the
later video as well is that this will
allow us to make our learning algorithms
run more quickly as well and that is
actually perhaps even the more
interesting application of this data
compression rather than reducing the
memory or disk space requirement for
storing the data on the previous slide
we showed an example of reducing data
from 2d to 1d on this line I'm going to
show another example of reducing data
from three-dimensional 3d to 2
dimensional 2d by the way in a more
typical example of dimensionality
reduction we might have a thousand
dimensional data or a thousand D data
that we might want to reduce to let's
say a hundred dimensional
rgd but because of the limitations of
what I can plot on the slide we're going
to use examples of you know 3d to 2d or
2d to 1d so let's say I have a data set
like that shown here and so I would have
a set of examples X I which are points
in these three dimensional examples I
know it might be a little bit hard to
see this on the slide but I'll show a 3d
point cloud in a little bit and might be
hard to see here a bit so maybe all of
this data may be lies roughly on the
plane like so and so what we can do with
dimensionality reduction is take a hold
of all of this data and project the data
down onto a two-dimensional plane so
here what I've done is I've taken all
the data and I projected all of the data
so that it all lies on the plane now
finally in order to specify the location
of a point within a plane we need two
numbers right we need to maybe specify
the location of a point along this axis
and then also specified as location
that accident so we need two numbers
maybe call Z 1 and Z 2 to specify the
location of a point within the plane and
so what that means is that we can now
represent each example each training
example using two numbers so I've drawn
here Z 1 and Z 2 so our data can present
it can be represented using vector Z
which are in R 2 and these subscripts Z
substitute 1z subscript 2 what I just
mean by that is that my vectors here are
Z you know on two dimensional vectors Z
1 Z 2 and so if I have some particular
examples Zi well that's the
2-dimensional vector zi1 zi2 and on the
previous slide when I was reducing data
to one dimensional data then I had only
z1 right but that's what the z1
subscript on the previous line was but
here I have two dimensional data so I
have Z 1 and Z 2 has the two components
of the data now let me just make sure
that these figures make sense so let me
just show these exams three figures
again but whoops VD plots now the
process we went through was that shown
in the left is the optional data set in
the middle of the data step project on
to 2d and on the right the 2d data set
when z1 and z2 s z axes let's look a
little bit further here's my original
data set my shell on the left and so it
has started off with a 3d point cloud
like zones with the axes are labeled x1
x2 x3 and so this is a 3d point cloud
but most of the data may be roughly lies
on you know not too far from some 2d
plane so what we can do is take this
data and here's my middle finger but
projected onto 2d so I've projected this
data so that all of it now lies on this
2d surface and you can see all all the
data
lies on lane to projected everything
onto a plane and so what this means is
that now I need only two numbers Z 1 and
Z 2 to represent the location of a point
on the plane and so that's the process
that we can go through to reduce our L
data from three dimensional to two
dimensional
so that's dimensionality reduction and
how we can use it to compress our data
and as we'll see later this will allow
us to make some of our learning
algorithms run much later as well but
get that them in a later video